Normalization reboot - Refactor normalization code (#1238)
airbnb/streamalert: docs/source/normalization.rst

``Artifact Extractor`` Lambda function will build an artifacts inventory based on S3 and Athena services. It enables users to search for all artifacts across whole infrastructure from a single Athena table.

Architecture
============

> .. figure:: ../images/normalization-arch.png

Reviewer: this image could use some love (like attention to detail with capitalized words vs non-capitalized words, spacing between labels + images, etc)... can you share this with me and I can tweak it?

  :alt: Normalization V2 Architecture
  :align: center
  :target: _images/normalization-arch.png

  (click to enlarge)

Configuration
=============

> In Normalization v1, the normalized types are based on log source (e.g. osquery, cloudwatch, etc) and defined in ``conf/normalized_types.json`` file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In Normalization v1, the normalized types are based on log source (e.g. ``osquery``, ``cloudwatch``, etc) and defined in ``conf/normalized_types.json`` file.
```

In Normalization v2, the normalized types will be based on log type (e.g. osquery:differential, cloudwatch:cloudtrail, cloudwatch:events, etc) and defined in ``conf/schemas/*.json``. Although, it is recommended to configure normalization in ``conf/schemas/*.json``, the v1 configuration will be still valid and merged to v2.

> Giving some examples to configure normalization v2. All normalized types are arbitrary, but we recommend to use all lower cases and underscores to name the normalized types to have better compatibility with Athena.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Below are some example configurations for normalization v2. All normalized types are arbitrary, but only lower case alphabetic characters and underscores should be used for names in order to be compatible with Athena.
```

> * Normalized all ip addresses (``ip_address``) and user identities (``user_identity``) for ``cloudwatch:events`` events

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Normalize all ip addresses (``ip_address``) and user identities (``user_identity``) for ``cloudwatch:events`` logs
```

        "id": "string",
        "region": "string",
        "resources": [],
        "source": "string",
        "time": "string",
        "version": "string"
      },
      "parser": "json",
      "configuration": {
        "normalization": {
          "event_name": [
            "eventName"
          ],
          "account": [
            {
              "fields": ["account"],
              "function": "Source account ID"
            },
            {
              "fields": ["recipientAccountId"],
              "function": "Destination account ID"
            }
          ],
          "ip_address": [
            {
              "fields": [
                "source",
                "sourceIPAddress"
              ],
              "function": "Source IP addresses"
            },
            {
              "fields": [
                "destination"
              ],
              "function": "Destination IP addresses"
            }
          ],
          "user_agent": [
            "userAgent"
          ],
          "user_identity": [
            "userName",
            "owner",
            "invokedBy",
            "type"
          ]
        }
      }
    }

> * Normalized all commands (``command``) and user identities (``user_identity``) for ``osquery:differential`` events

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Normalize all commands (``command``) and user identities (``user_identity``) for ``osquery:differential`` logs
```

        "epoch": "integer",
        "hostIdentifier": "string",
        "log_type": "string",
        "name": "string",
        "unixTime": "integer",
        "logNumericsAsNumbers": "string",
        "numerics": "string"
      },
      "parser": "json",
      "configuration": {
        "optional_top_level_keys": [
          "counter",
          "decorations",
          "epoch",
          "log_type",
          "logNumericsAsNumbers",
          "numerics"
        ],
        "normalization": {
          "command": [
            "cmdline",
            "command"
          ],
          "ip_address": [
            {
              "fields": [
                "host",
                "source",
                "local_address",
                "address"
              ],
              "function": "Source IP addresses"
            },
            {
              "fields": [
                "destination",
                "remote_address",
                "gateway"
              ],
              "function": "Destination IP addresses"
            }
          ],
          "user_identity": [
            "username",
            "user"
          ]
        }
      }
    }

Deployment
==========

> * Artifact Extractor will only work if firehose and historical search enabled in ``conf/global.json``

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Artifact Extractor will only work if Firehose and historical search are enabled in ``conf/global.json``
```

  .. code-block::

    "infrastructure": {
      ...
      "firehose": {
        "use_prefix": true,
        "buffer_interval": 60,
        "buffer_size": 128,
        "enabled": true,
        "enabled_logs": {
          "cloudwatch": {},
          "osquery": {}
        }
      }
      ...
    }

* Enable Artifact Extractor feature in ``conf/lambda.json``

  .. code-block::

    "artifact_extractor_config": {
      "concurrency_limit": 10,
      "enabled": true,
      ...
    },

> * Use StreamAlert cli to deploy Artifact Extractor lambda function and new resources

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Use StreamAlert cli to deploy Artifact Extractor Lambda function and new resources
```

  The deployment will add following resources.

  * A new Lambda function
  * A new Glue catalog table ``artifacts`` for Historical Search via Athena
  * A new Firehose to deliver artifacts to S3 bucket

>   * Update existing Firehoses to allow to invoke Artifact Extractor lambda if it is enabled on the Firehoses

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * Update existing Firehoses to allow to invoke Artifact Extractor Lambda if it is enabled on the Firehose resources
```

  * New permissions, metrics and alarms.

  .. code-block:: bash

    python manage.py deploy --function artifact_extractor

> * If normalization configuration changed in ``conf/schemas/*.json``, make sure deploy classifier as well

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* If the normalization configuration has changed in ``conf/schemas/*.json``, make sure to deploy the classifier Lambda function as well
```

  .. code-block:: bash

    python manage.py deploy --function classifier

Artifacts
=========

> Artifacts will be searching via Athena ``artifacts`` table. During the test in staging environment, two fake ``cloudwatch:events`` were sent to a Kinesis data stream.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Artifacts will be searchable within the Athena ``artifacts`` table
```

> Those two fake events were searchable in ``cloudwatch_events`` table.

Reviewer: what are these references to "fake" events and "staging" environment in the docs??? please remove or update as necessary
